all right um sorry we're going to have
to jump in and take you to Joe Biden
speaking in Tel Aviv ever be
alone most
importantly the uh I know recent
terrorist assault on the people of this
nation has left a deep deep wound more
than 1,300 innocent Israelis killed
including at least 31 American citizens
by the terrorist group Hamas hundreds
hundreds of young people at am Music
Festival the festival was for peace for
peace gunned down as they ran for their
lives scores of Innocents from infants
to elderly grandparents Israelis and
Americans taken hostage children
slaughtered babies slaughtered entire
families
massacred rape beheadings bodies burned
alive MOS committed atrocities that
recall the worst ravages of Isis
unleashing pure unadulterated evil upon
the
world there's no rationalizing it no
excusing it period the brutality we saw
would have cut deep anywhere in the
world but it cuts deeper here in
Israel October 7th which was sacred a
sacred Jewish holiday became the
deadliest day for the Jewish people
since the
Holocaust it has brought to the surface
painful memories and scars L by
Millennia of anti-semitism
in the genocide of the Jewish
people the world watched then it knew
and the world did
nothing we will not stand by and do
nothing
again not today not tomorrow not ever to
those who are living in limbo waiting
desperately to learn the fate of a loved
one especially to families of the
hostages you're not
alone we're working with Partners
throughout the region pursuing every
Avenue to bring home those who are being
H captive by
Hamas I can't speak publicly about all
the details but let me assure you for me
as the American president there's no
higher priority than the release and
safe return of all these
hostages to those who are grieving a
child a parent a spouse a sibling a
friend I know you feel like there's that
black hole in the middle of your chest
you feel like you're being sucked into
it the Survivor remorse the anger the
questions of faith in your soul starting
at staring at that empty chair sitting
shiva the first Sabbath without them
they're the everyday things small things
that you miss the most the scent when
you open the closet door the morning
coffee you shared together the bend of
his smile the perfect pitch of her laugh
the giggle of your little boy the
baby for those who have lost loved ones
this is what I know they'll never be
truly
gone there's something that's never
fully lost your love for them and their
love for you and I promise you you'll be
walking along some days and say what
would she or he want me to do you smile
when you pass a place that reminds you
of them that's when you know when a
smile comes to your lips before a tear
to your eye that's you know you're going
to to fully make
it that's what will give you the
fortitude to find light in the darkest
hours when terrorists believe they could
bring down bring you down bend your will
break your resolve but they never did
and they never
will instead we saw incredible stories
of heroism and courage Israelis taking
care of one another neighbors forming
watch groups protect their
kibuts opening their homes to shelter
survivors
retired soldiers running into danger
once again civilian Medics flying across
rescue flying rescue missions and
off-duty Medics at the music festival
caring for the wounded before coming
victim before becoming the victim
himself volunteers retrieving bodies of
the dead so families could bury their
loved ones in accordance with Jewish
tradition
reservice leaving behind their families
their honeymoons their studies abroad
without hesitation and so much
more the state of Israel is born to be a
safe place for the Jewish people of the
world that's why I was born blong said
if Israel didn't exist we'd have to
invent
it while it may not feel that way today
Israel must again be a safe place for
the Jewish people and I promise you
we're going to do everything in our
power to make sure that it will be
75 years ago just 11 minutes after its
founding president Harry S Truman and
the United States of America became the
first nation to recognize
Israel we've stood by your side ever
since we're going to Stand By Your Side
now my Administration been in close
touch with your leadership from the
first moments of this attack we're going
to make sure we have what you have what
you need to protect your people to
defend your nation for decades we've
ensured Israel's qualitative military
Edge and later this week I'm going to
ask the United States Congress for
unprecedented support package for
Israel's defense we're going to keep
Iron Dome fully supplied so we can
continue standing Sentinel over Israeli
Skies saving Israeli lives we' moved US
military assets to the region including
positioning the USS Ford carrier strike
group in the Eastern Mediterranean with
the USS seisen on the way to deter to
defer further aggression against Israel
and to prevent this conflict from
spreading the world will know that
Israel is Israel is stronger than ever
and my message to any state or any other
hostile actor thinking about attacking
Israel Remains the Same as it was a week
ago don't don't
don't since this terrorist terrorist
attack took place we've seen it
described as Israel's
9/11 but for a nation the size of Israel
was like 15
911s the scale may be different but I'm
sure those Horrors have tapped into so
some kind of Primal feeling in Israel
just like it did felt in the United
States shock pain rage and all consuming
rage I understand and many Americans
understand you can't can't look at what
has happened here to your mothers your
fathers your
grandparents Sons daughters children
even babies and not scream out for
justice justice must be
done but I caution this while you feel
that rage don't be consumed by it after
911 we were in Rage in the United States
while we sought Justice and got Justice
we also made
mistakes and the first US president to
visit Israel in time of
War I made wartime decisions I know the
choices are never clear or easy for the
leadership there's always cost but it
requires being deliberate requires
asking very hard
questions it requires clarity about the
objectives and an honest assessment
about whether the path you're on will
achieve those
objectives the vast majority of
Palestinians are not
Hamas Hamas does not represent the
Palestinian people Hamas uses innocence
innocent families in Gaza as human
Shields putting their command centers
their weapons their Communications
tunnels and residential
areas Palestinian people are suffering
greatly as well we mourn the loss of
innocent Palestinian lives like the
entire world I was outraged and saddened
by the enormous loss of life yesterday
in the hospital in
Gaza based on the information we've seen
today it appears a result of an errant
rocket fired by a terrorist group in
Gaza the United States unequivocally
stands for the protection of civilian
life during conflict and I grieve I
truly grieve for the families who were
killed or wounded by this
tragedy people of Gaza need food water
medicine shelter today I asked the
Israeli cabinet I met with for some time
this morning to agree to the delivery of
life-saving humanitarian assistance to
civilians in Gaza based on their
understanding that there will be
inspections that the aid should go to
civilians not to
Hamas Israel agreed the humanitarian
assistance can begin to move from Egypt
to Gaza let me be clear if amas diverts
or steals the assistance they will have
demonstrated once again that they have
no concern for the welfare of the
Palestinian people and it will end
as a practical matter it will it will
stop the International Community from
being able to provide this
Aid we're working in close cooperation
with the government of Egypt the United
Nations and its agencies like the world
program and other partners in the region
to get trucks moving across the border
as soon as
possible separately I ask Israel that
the global Community demand that the
International Red Cross be able to visit
hostages I just demanded that the United
States fully a just demand that the
United States fully
supports today I'm also announcing $100
million in new US funding for
humanitarian assistance in both Gaza and
the West Bank this money will support
more than one million displaced and
conflict affected Palestinians including
emergency needs in
Gaza you are a Jewish State you are a
Jewish state but you're also a democracy
un likee the United States you don't
live by the rules of terrorists you live
by the rule of law when conflicts flare
you live by the law of
Wars what sets us apart from the
terrorists is we believe in the
fundamental Dignity of every human life
Israeli Palestinian Arab Jew Muslim
Christian everyone you can't give up
what makes you who you
are if you give that up then the
terrorist win and we can never let them
win you know Israel is a
miracle a Triumph of faith and resolve
and resilience over impossible pain and
loss think about October 7th the Jewish
holiday where you read about the death
of
Moses a tragic story of a profound loss
to an entire
nation a death that could have left
helpless hopelessness in the hearts of
the entire of entire
nation but though Moses died his memory
his message his lessons have lived on
for generations of the Jewish people as
well as many others and just as the
memory of your loved ones will live on
as well after reading the story of
moses' death those who observe the
holiday began reading the Torah from the
very beginning the story of creation
reminds us of two things first that when
we get knocked down we get back up again
and we begin a new and second when we're
faced with tragedy and loss we must go
back to the beginning and remember who
we are we are all human beings creating
the image of God With Dignity humanity
and
purpose in the darkness to be the light
unto the world is what we're about you
inspire hope and light for so many
around the
world that's what the terrorists seek to
destroy that's what they seek to destroy
because they live in darkness but not
you not
Israel nations of conscience like the
United States and Israel are not
measured solely by the example or power
we're measured by the power of our
example that's why as hard as it is must
keep pursuing peace must keep pursuing a
path so that Israel and the Palestinian
people can both live safely in Security
in dignity and in peace for me that
means a two-state solution must keep
working for Israel's greater integration
with his neighbors these attacks have
only strengthen my commitment and
determination and my will to get that
done I'm here to tell you the terrorist
will not win Freedom will
win so let me end where I
began Israel You're Not
Alone United States stands with
you I told the story before and I'll
tell it again of my first meeting with
an Israeli Prime Minister 50 years ago
as a young Senator I was sitting across
from Golden mayair at her desk in her
office and she had a guy named a guy who
later became prime minister sitting next
to me just before the 1973 yam kapor
war and she flipped the maps up and down
telling me how bad things were and how
terrible they were all of a sudden she
looked at me and she said would you like
a
photograph I looked at her she she got
up from her desk and walked down into
that hallway I think it's Marble
forign walked down the hallway we walk
down there were a bunch of photographers
standing in front of us we're standing
shoulder toosh shoulder without her
looking at me she said to me knowing i'
hear why do you look so worried Senator
Biden and I said worried like of course
I'm worried and she looked at me and she
didn't look she said we don't worry
senator
we Israelis have a secret
weapon we have nowhere else to
go well today I say to all of Israel the
United States isn't going anywhere
either we're going to stand with you
we'll walk beside you in those dark days
and walk beside you in the good days to
come and they will
come as you say in Hebrew which I'm not
going to attempt to do because I'm such
a terrible linguist I'll say in
English the people of Israel live the
people of Israel live Israel will be
safe secure Jewish and Democratic state
today tomorrow and
forever may God protect all those who
work for
peace God save those who are still In
Harm's Way thank you very much Mr
President what is
your You Are Not Alone we will not stand
by and do nothing we are pursuing every
Avenue Israel must again be a safe place
the words there of the US President Joe
Biden recounting some of the
suffering that Israel felt on October
the 7th when he said more than 1300
Israelis were killed children
slaughtered pure unadulterated evil he
went on to reference Palestinian Ian
suffering saying he Mourns the
Palestinian loss of life but at the same
time he went on to blame Palestinian
groups for the attack we saw last night
in Gaza City when alah Hospital the
Baptist hospital was hit saying he
believes it was errant rocket Fire by a
terror group let's bring in Alan fiser
who's in telis
Allan distilling this speech this is
clearly a strong message of support that
will not be shaken for Israel regardless
of what one sees the last 24 hours or 48
Hours on the
ground that's right and also suggesting
that uh the information that he received
from the Pentagon uh points to the fact
that this was a a fair fielded missile
firing from inside Gaza rather than an
operation carried out by Israel uh a
couple of interesting things Joe Biden
really needed deliverables from this
visit and he seems to have convinced the
Israeli War cabinet that they do have to
open up humanitarian corridors and
trucks of Aid will start getting into
Gaza very soon not quite clear whether
or not there'll also be the Dual
Nationals who have been at the Raa
Crossing will be able to leave as well
but Joe Biden's saying that screening is
now in place to make sure that those
trucks can start getting in that was a
concern of the Israelis Anthony blinkin
had mentioned the fact that the the aid
was likely to start flowing on on Sunday
but that was the main stumbling B it
looks as if that may well have uh been
overcome and and Joe Biden trying to be
the honest broker by suggesting that of
course the answer to to the issues in
the Middle East is greater engagement
with Israel and we've seen that through
the Abraham Accords but also a two-state
solution and standing
in Tel Aviv saying that that is the The
Way Forward uh but also he's deeply
concerned about the number of people
that are being held captive he doesn't
know how many Americans might be among
the number we've certainly seen people
here who've been demanding their return
uh throughout the course of the day but
he is also aware that politically uh a
hostage crisis and presidential
elections are not words that go well
together so he will when he says that
you can't I can't speak of everything
that's going on but my Administration is
working very hard to make sure that
those people are returned there's a
number of reasons for that not least of
which is political and the domestic
front all right thanks so much alen
fiser there